---
title: English Language
permalink: /curriculum/english-language/
description: ""
variant: tiptap
---
<p><strong>Vision</strong> <br>Every Child, An Effective Communicator</p><p><strong>Mission</strong>&nbsp; <br>To nurture critical readers, creative writers and confident speakers</p><h3>Key Programmes</h3><h5><strong>STELLAR Curriculum for P1 to P6</strong></h5><p>The overarching aim of the EL Syllabus 2020 is to&nbsp;<strong>develop effective and affective language use in the students.</strong>&nbsp;The school adopts the STrategies for English Language Learning And Reading (STELLAR) which aims to strengthen the students’ foundation in literacy skills through a variety of learner-centred and developmentally appropriate pedagogical approaches using Big Books and authentic children’s text.&nbsp;&nbsp;</p><p>The vision of STELLAR is to inculcate in children the love for reading and build a strong foundation in the English Language. STELLAR is currently being implemented from Primary 1 to 6.</p><p>P1 and P2 STELLAR teaching strategies include:</p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Shared Book Approach (SBA)</p></li><li><p>Exploratory Talk</p></li><li><p>Literacy Stations</p></li><li><p>Extensive Reading</p></li></ul><p>P3 and P6 STELLAR teaching strategies include:</p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Supported Reading</p></li><li><p>What I Know - What I Want to Know - What I Learned (KWL)</p></li><li><p>Differentiated Instruction</p></li><li><p>Presentational Talk</p></li><li><p>Extensive Reading<br></p></li></ul><h5><strong>Learning Journeys</strong></h5><p>Learning Journeys are also organised to enrich students’ learning. These learning journeys are aligned with some of the STELLAR Big Book titles. During these school trips, students would be able to gain more insight and delve deeper into the themes introduced in the Big Books. Examples of these learning journeys include trip to the Singapore Zoological Garden and the SEA Aquarium for the lower primary students.</p><h5><strong>Reading Programmes</strong></h5><p>Reading is an important skill that needs to be developed in children. The ability to learn about new subjects depends on the ability to read. Hence, the school has initiated programmes such as KidsREAD, the Buddy Reading Programme and Star Readers Programme to cultivate an interest in reading amongst our students.&nbsp;</p><p><strong>(a) KidsREAD</strong> <br>KidsREAD is a collaborative effort by the National Library Board (NLB) together with the People’s Association (PA) and four self-help groups to promote the love of reading and cultivate good reading habits among children. KidsREAD is conducted weekly for selected P1 and P2 students.</p><p><strong>Objectives of kidsREAD</strong></p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;To promote the love of reading and cultivate good reading habits among young Singaporeans</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;To leverage on the strengths of various partners to create a reading programme for children</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;To provide an avenue for children from various races to interact from an early age.</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;To help enhance the quality of life of the children and their families.</p><p>For more details on KidsREAD, please isit&nbsp;<strong><a href="http://www.nlb.gov.sg/kidsread/" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">http://www.nlb.gov.sg/kidsread/</a></strong></p><p><strong>(b) Buddy Reading Programme</strong>&nbsp;</p><p>In partnership with Temasek Junior College (TJC), a group of dedicated students read one-to-one with reluctant readers on some Fridays after school.</p><p>This initiative is aimed at providing additional guidance for our students to improve in their oral and listening skills as well as to inculcate in them a love for reading.</p><p>The programme is a firm favourite among our students as it gives them opportunities to interact and learn from their 'brothers and sisters' from TJC. It was also featured in the Chinese language media as an effective approach towards inculcating the love of reading among these students.&nbsp;</p><p><strong>(c) Star Readers Programme</strong></p><p>The Star Reader Programme aims to:</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;promote interest in reading among students;</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;enable students to carry out self-directed activities in reading; and</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;provide opportunities for students to develop creativity and initiative.</p><p>The&nbsp;<strong>P1 to P4</strong>&nbsp;students are encouraged to complete a&nbsp;Star Reader Booklet over the school holidays. Students can earn Star Reader badges (Gold, Silver and Bronze) when they complete the activities in the booklet.&nbsp;The&nbsp;<strong>P5 and P6</strong>&nbsp;students are encouraged to write book reviews as part of this programme.&nbsp;Tokens are given to students with the best book reviews.</p><p><strong>(d) In-class Library</strong></p><p>All classes are stocked with both fiction and non-fiction books for students to borrow and to read during Sustained Silent Reading (SSR) sessions and Extensive Reading periods. The Extensive Reading period is ringfenced for teachers to carry out reading activities.</p><h5><strong>Little Red Dot (P5 to P6)</strong></h5><p>As part of our efforts to broaden English Language learning and expose students to current affairs, the school requires our students to subscribe to the Straits Times Little Red Dot. The publication delivers stories to address the significance behind important world and local events and has elements of social emotional learning, values education and National Education. It also emphasises the learning of specific language skills such as reading, speaking and grammar by providing lesson activities which the English Language teachers infuse in their classes.</p>